# Configuration

Vigilant-Engine can be configured depending on the node. Some settings are present in the Menuconfig, which are not changeable in runtime, and some are configured in runtime.

## Runtime settings

Runtime settings are configured in the main file like this:
```c
VigilantConfig VgConfig = {
    .unique_component_name = "Vigilant ESP Test",
    .network_mode = NW_MODE_APSTA
};
```
### Available settings:
___
#### `unique_component_name`, **string**
The name of the esp node, must be unique.
___
#### `network_mode`, **enum**
The network mode of the esp node. 
###### Options:
- `NW_MODE_APSTA` AP and STA mode
- `NW_MODE_AP` AP mode
- `NW_MODE_STA` STA mode
___
## Menuconfig Settings (Example / HTTP)
___
#### `EXAMPLE_BASIC_AUTH`, **bool**
Enable HTTP Basic Authentication for the web server. When enabled, clients must provide a username and password in the HTTP headers before accessing protected resources.

**default**: `0`
___
#### `EXAMPLE_BASIC_AUTH_USERNAME`, **string**
The username used for HTTP Basic Authentication. This setting is only available when `EXAMPLE_BASIC_AUTH` is enabled.

**default**: `"ESP32"`
___
#### `EXAMPLE_BASIC_AUTH_PASSWORD`, **string**
The password used for HTTP Basic Authentication. This setting is only available when `EXAMPLE_BASIC_AUTH` is enabled.

**default**: `"ESP32Webserver"`
___
#### `EXAMPLE_ENABLE_SSE_HANDLER`, **bool**
Enable Server-Sent Events (SSE) support so the server can push real-time updates to connected clients over HTTP.

**default**: `0`
___
## Menuconfig Settings (Status LED)
___
#### `VE_INVERT_STATUS_LED`, **bool**
Depending on the board and LED, some activate on LOW and some activate on HIGH. To invert and turn the LED on for LOW, set this option to true.

**default**: `1`
___
#### `VE_ENABLE_STATUS_LED`, **bool**
Enable status LED, enable this option to use the status LED functionality in Vigilant Engine. The status LED provides visual feedback on the system's status and operations, and can optionally be used for visual output.

**default**: `1`
___
#### `VE_LED_TYPE`, **enum**
Select the status LED hardware type used by Vigilant Engine.
###### Options:
- `VE_LED_TYPE_WS2812B` Uses a single WS2812B addressable RGB LED.
- `VE_LED_TYPE_NONE` Uses a generic GPIO-driven LED setup.

This setting is only available when `VE_ENABLE_STATUS_LED` is enabled.

___
#### `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE`, **enum**
Choose how the status LED conveys information depending on your board or preference. This setting applies when `VE_LED_TYPE` is set to `VE_LED_TYPE_NONE`.
###### Options:
- `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE_RGB` Shows status information by changing colors and frequency. Suitable for a basic RGB led consisting of three separate GPIO pins.
- `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE_BLINK` Varies frequency of blinking to match current status. Suitable for a basic led consisting of one GPIO pin.

**default**: `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE_RGB`
___
#### `VE_STATUS_WS2812B_PIN`, **int**
The GPIO pin used as the data output for the WS2812B status LED. This setting applies when `VE_LED_TYPE` is set to `VE_LED_TYPE_WS2812B`.

**default**: `8`
___
#### `VE_STATUS_LED_GPIO_RED`, **int**
The GPIO pin number for the red status LED in `RGB` mode. This setting applies when `VE_LED_TYPE` is set to `VE_LED_TYPE_NONE` and `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE` is set to `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE_RGB`.

**default**: `46`
___
#### `VE_STATUS_LED_GPIO_GREEN`, **int**
The GPIO pin number for the green status LED in `RGB` mode. This setting applies when `VE_LED_TYPE` is set to `VE_LED_TYPE_NONE` and `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE` is set to `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE_RGB`.

**default**: `0`
___
#### `VE_STATUS_LED_GPIO_BLUE`, **int**
The GPIO pin number for the blue status LED in `RGB` mode. This setting applies when `VE_LED_TYPE` is set to `VE_LED_TYPE_NONE` and `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE` is set to `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE_RGB`.

**default**: `45`
___
#### `VE_STATUS_LED_GPIO_BLINK`, **int**
The GPIO pin number for the single status LED in `BLINK` mode. This setting applies when `VE_LED_TYPE` is set to `VE_LED_TYPE_NONE` and `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE` is set to `VE_STATUS_LED_MODE_BLINK`.

**default**: `48`
___
## Menuconfig Settings (WiFi)
___
#### `VE_STA_SSID`, **string**
The SSID of the WiFi network the Vigilant Engine should connect to.

**default**: `"aerobear"`
___
#### `VE_STA_PASSWORD`, **string**
The password for the WiFi network the Vigilant Engine should connect to.

**default**: `"aerobear"`
___
#### `VE_STA_RECONNECT_INTERVAL_MS`, **int**
The interval in milliseconds for attempting to reconnect to the WiFi network when the connection is lost in STA mode.

**default**: `3000`
___
#### `VE_AP_SSID_PREFIX`, **string**
The prefix for the SSID of the WiFi Access Point (AP) mode of the Vigilant Engine. The full SSID will be generated by appending the device's MAC address to this prefix. 

**default**: `"aerobear-"`
___
#### `VE_AP_PASSWORD`, **string**
The password for the WiFi Access Point (AP) mode of the Vigilant Engine.

**default**: `"aerobear"`
___
